Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, today we are very happy to have on this program,
and I'm very proud to be able to introduce to all of you the distinguished Attorney General
of the United States Robert Kennedy.
And I want to say in that connection that I think that Mr. Kennedy is making an excellent
Attorney General.
I was proud to support him.
I don't want to say too many things to embarrass him here in his presence, but as all of
you know, he is 35 years old and is the youngest Attorney General that we've had in more
than 100 years.
I don't know what happened to that fellow Bob.
It was younger than you.
I don't know how to go.
But in any event, I think that Attorney General Kennedy is surrounding himself with very
able assistance that he is going to be a determined and active and courageous Attorney General.
And I think we'll be mighty proud of the record that he is going to make or that he is making.
We have a special interest in one person and your immediate staff, Mr. Attorney General,
that's John Seagland-Failer.
John was the Assistant City Editor of the National Tennessee and how did you get mixed
up with John?
Well, we were investigating some three years ago, I guess, Senator.
I was Counselor of the Senate Records Committee and we were investigating a situation down in
Tennessee involving some corruption and dishonesty and involving a judge in Tennessee.
And John Sigmothola was the one that first brought it to our attention as well as followed
shortly afterwards by a number of your other citizens there.
And we made an investigation, held some hearings and he was very instrumental in uncovering
information which was ultimately revealed at our hearings.
And then later on, you know, your legislature picked it up and the judge was impeached.
And I think that he covered that and was very helpful to them also.
So I got to know him then and he worked in the campaign with us.
He was my administrative assistant and when I was out speaking in the country, he was really
running the whole campaign.
And so after I was appointed to this position, I asked him if he'd come and be my assistant
here.
So I think that I'm very fortunate in having him.
Well, we all think that John is a very able man.
I know he's working awfully hard.
Well, I want to say, folks, that I think the new program, our president Kennedy, is getting
started off fine.
There's a lot of activity.
There are many plans to do many things that are necessary, such as the area redevelopment
bill.
He's gotten food out to the needy.
We have programs that will soon be before the Senate in connection with raising the
minimum wage and extending the coverage assistance to the aged and medical assistance.
So the things are really humming in Washington.
Of course, there's a lot of confusion and difficulty and the transition from one administration
to another.
A marble sometime, how president Kennedy stands all of the strain that must be placed upon
him during this very difficult time.
Bob, I know you see your brother, John, very often.
How's he feeling?
Well, I think very well.
As I believe you know, Senator, I don't think there's anything that is more difficult than
an arduous campaign.
You went through the campaign in Wisconsin, I believe four years ago, and we went through
it just a year ago, and I don't think anything could be as tough as that.
And then the campaign, New Hampshire, and traveling all around the country making as many
as 20 or 22 speeches a day and sleeping four or five hours, that this actually is less
difficult physically than that kind of an operation.
And then you mean being president is less difficult than all this campaign?
Certainly physically.
Of all that traveling and all that strain or making speeches continuously.
So I think that he's getting extremely healthy and in a very good position to make some
of these decisions.
I think health makes a big difference if you're healthy.
You can meet these problems and difficulties much easier.
And I've never seen his health better than it's been over the period of the last year or
so.
And as I say, I think that it's not a great deal different than what he's been through
in the past.
Well, I must say that when Senator Gore and I went down to see him last week at time when
President Jackson's portrait was put back up in the conference room, he certainly looked
well and very keen and interested in anxious to get all of the ideas he could.
That's a wonderful picture, I think.
Yes, I think it is.
It should have been up on the wall all the time.
I have a very interesting letter that I obtained in an auction some years ago of President Jackson
that he wrote just before the battle in New Orleans to his wife telling about the positions
of the British and what he anticipated for the future.
Well, that's a very precious letter.
Yes, and a very touching letter too.
Very touching.
Well, at any time that you don't have some precious place to keep it, I know the Hermitage
would be glad to have it on there among their precious documents.
Then we have a state library that has a collection of Andrew Jackson's letters and papers and
no doubt you've seen it down at the time.
I did, I visited there and I visited the Hermitage.
I've got a also that was a very important momento to me, a gavill that was sent by the governor
which is taken from the desk of President Jackson when he was living in Nashville, Tennessee.
I believe the governor of Beefard Allings and brought that up to Washington.
He was very nice.
I have that on my desk at the Attorney General's office.
Do you ever have to use it to keep your associates in order?
John seconds all occasionally, but other than him.
I noticed in the paper that you're a wonderful assistant, Byron, Wizard White.
Yes.
Probably got a little too nervous and has gone to the hospital for a few days.
He said some difficulty with his stomach, but...
Well, he's a wonderful fellow.
One thing I think about you and your outstanding brother and all of the candidates you have,
the tremendous energy and interest and the power to relax, which is of what anyone in public
office needs.
Well, do you mind if I, we talk a little bit about how things are going?
How do you feel that the new program is going generally, the new frontier?
Well, I think that we're making a good deal of progress, the senator.
I think, of course, it's early, it's only been, I think, it's 40 days since the inauguration.
I think that the President has shown by the various programs that he's offered, that he
feels it's necessary and essential that the country move again in many areas.
And here in the United States and in our relationship with other countries, and he's trying to
take some steps to get some of these programs accepted by Congress and accepted by the American
people.
And I think that there's some good deal of progress as being made.
Of course, I think that we all, everybody appreciates the fact that before a great many things
can be done, the cabinet members have to have hearings before the committees and they
have to be confirmed.
And I believe that all the cabinet members and practically all of the people who have
to come before the Senate to be confirmed have been confirmed.
That's correct, yes.
And I don't believe today that any of them have been turned down.
No, they have.
Which speaks mighty well for the people who are being selected.
Well, Mr. Attorney General or Bob, if I may call you that, tell us, I have the feeling
that the Attorney General, the Department of Justice is really humming and the things
are going and everybody is working hard with the determination to enforce the law and to
improve the enforcement of the law.
Tell us something about your plans.
How about in the antitrust field where we have had a shocking experience recently, finding
the some officials in the electrical manufacturing industry, fixing prices, talking things over
violating the law and they've now, some of them have been sent to penal institution for
and up on their plea of guilty.
What about that?
Well, there are going to be a number of cases that are going to arise out of those cases,
Senator.
As you are well aware, because I think that was first initially developed by your committee,
the facts that which ultimately led up to their indictment and their conviction.
There were sales, for instance, to TVA where we are shown that the sales were handled through
rig bidding, the contractors getting together amongst themselves and determining what the
prices should be, who should get the bid.
The government is now going to take action.
I would think within about six weeks to try to collect damages from the electric companies
in the areas in which they were defrauded, one of the major areas will be in the TVA,
but there will be a number of other government agencies whose contracts will be studied to
determine whether we can also bring some action at the federal level.
We will continue to be working in this whole area of price fixing.
I think it has a very important effect on local communities.
This last electrical case had a nationwide effect, but there are many other similar cases
which have an effect on a state or on a particular city or in a community.
We are investigating a number of those.
I might say that we are extremely appreciative of the help and cooperation and the very
important leads that we have received from your committee because I think that that kind
of information that you have given to the executive branch of the government has been
almost essential for us to proceed in these areas.
I would hope that you in turn will be continuing your hearing so that the two branches of
the government can work together in this manner.
Thank you, Bob.
I have been the chairman of the Antitrust and Monopoly Subcommittee for a number of years
and never have we received better cooperation or more sympathetic attitude from anyone than
we have from you as the new Attorney General.
We did find that beds are to the TVA, even though companies might be in different parts
of the United States have different labor costs, even though they were secret beds that
strangely they were identical and that they were so often they would be a rotation
so as to give the bed to some particular company.
I think the public ought to understand that this is very destructive of our free enterprise
system.
It is a kind of thing that we cannot tolerate and we are going to work out along with you
and further investigations.
But this might be going on in other lands of industry and I suppose that you and we will
be looking in.
Yes.
You made a great record as General Counsel or Chief Counsel of the Senate Records Committee
headed up by Senator John McClellan of Arkansas.
I admired your courage and your energy and thoroughness in carrying out the work of that
committee.
I have been very pleased to know about your attitude and your determination to do something
to try to rid the nation of the least check or stop where we can influence the criminal
element.
Will you tell us something about that, Mr. Attorney General?
Well, I think that the situation since 1950 when you first developed these matters has
become even more critical.
And I think that the necessary and essential executive branch of the government step in
with a forceful program, I think rising the steps that will be taken, rising out of the
conference that you and Senator McClellan and Jay Agahuber, the FBI and I had the Department
of Justice several weeks ago that there will be important steps taken.
I don't think that this problem will be solved overnight as both of us recognize.
But I think we can take certain steps which will make a major difference in many areas
of the United States to stamp out organized crime.
Well, I know something about your plans and I'm certain that great benefits will come
from it.
And I know that people all over the country who are interested in stamping out organized
crime, better law enforcement are going to be encouraged.
And after all the activity of people at the local level is, that counts very, very much
doesn't it?
That's certainly does.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Accountady has been down to Tennessee on many occasions.
I know that many of you have met him and seen him.
I know you will follow his career with a great deal of interest.
And let me say again that I think when the history of this administration has written,
I think that we will all record that he has been one of the great attorney generals
in the history of our nation.
We thank you very much, Bob, for coming on the program and see you again soon.
Thank you, Senator.
That's all for now.